README.md, before:

[![Review Assignment Due Date](https://classroom.github.com/assets/deadline-readme-button-22041afd0340ce965d47ae6ef1cefeee28c7c493a6346c4f15d667ab976d596c.svg)](https://classroom.github.com/a/oKceQg_5)
# UPEcman - a UPE pacman
## This project was taught by Professor Dr. Ruben Carlo Benante. For more information, visit: https://hydra.beco.cc


Pacman with ncurses library

# Ghosts

## Blinky

* Name in English: Blinky
* English nickname: Shadow
* Name in Japanese: Oikake
* Japanese nickname: Akabei
* Superpower alter-ego name: Cruise Elroy
* Color: red
* Personality:
    - pursuer
    - chaser
    - aggressive
    - simple minded
    - determined
    - tenacious
    - cruiser
* Characteristics:
    - the first ghost to track Pacman down
    - very hard to shake off
    - it targets Pacman directly
    - when enhanced Cruise Elroy is summoned:
        * greater speed by 5%
        * scatter mode do not scatter anymore
* Ghost house: starts outside and if inside exits immediately
* Scatter mode target: upper-right corner (as Blinky), and Pacman (as Elroy)
* Portuguese:
    - Name in Portuguese: Oto or Barnabé
    - Superpower portuguese name: Elvis or Super-Oto
    - Portuguese nickname: Sombra

## Pinky

* Name in English: Pinky
* English nickname: Speedy
* Name in Japanese: Machibuse
* Japanese nickname: Pinky
* Color: pink
* Personality:
    - ambusher
    - lurker
    - ambuscader
* Characteristics:
    - it likes to cut Pacman off
    - work harmoniously with Blinky: it goes from the front while Blinky pursues from behind
    - it targets 4 tiles straight ahead of Pacman
    - the most intelligent of the group
* Ghost house: the first to get out (Blinky is already outside)
* Scatter mode target: upper-left corner
* Portuguese:
    - Name in Portuguese: Pascoal
    - Portuguese nickname: Traíra

## Inky

* Name in English: Inky
* English nickname: Bashful
* Name in Japanese: Kimagure
* Japanese nickname: Aosuke
* Color: cyan (light blue)
* Personality:
    - fickle
    - moody
    - uneven temper
    - unpredictable
    - whimsical
    - antisocial
* Characteristics:
    - changes from:
        * aggressive (like Blinky), if near Pacman
        * trickery (like Pinky), if in a medium distance of Pacman
        * distracted (like Clyde), if far away of Pacman
    - it can be the most hard ghost to avoid due to its triple personality
    - targets a tile in front of Pacman opposite to Blinky's position
* Ghost house: it is the second to exit, only after Pinky
* Scatter mode target: lower-right corner
* Portuguese:
    - Name in Portuguese: Igor
    - Portuguese nickname: Doido

## Clyde

* Name in English: Clyde
* English nickname: Pokey
* Name in Japanese: Otoboke
* Japanese nickname: Guzuta
* Color: orange
* Personality:
    - sluggish
    - stupid
    - dopey
    - feigning ignorance
    - short-sighted
* Characteristics:
    - it chases Pacman from distance
    - if it is near, it will change its target to its preferred corner
* Ghost house: the last to get out
* Scatter mode target: lower-left corner
* Portuguese:
    - Name in Portuguese: Clemente
    - Portuguese nickname: Pateta

## Scatter mode

The ghosts will chase Pacman for 20 seconds, then scatter for 7 seconds; and repeat the loop.

## Amazing Pacman

"Pac-Man is an amazing example of seemingly-complex behavior arising from only a few cleverly-designed rules, with the result being a deep and challenging game that players still strive to master, 30 years after its release." (by Chad Birch, 2010)

# References:

* https://www.google.com/doodles/30th-anniversary-of-pac-man
* http://www.garotasgeeks.com/5-coisas-que-voce-nao-sabia-sobre-o-pac-man/
* https://www.destructoid.com/blinky-inky-pinky-and-clyde-a-small-onomastic-study-108669.phtml
* http://olduse.net/blog/
* http://gameinternals.com/post/2072558330/understanding-pac-man-ghost-behavior
* http://www.gamasutra.com/view/feature/3938/the\_pacman\_dossier.php?print=1
* http://donhodges.com/pacman\_pinky\_explanation.htm
* http://www.todayifoundout.com/index.php/2015/10/ghosts-pac-man-work/
* https://www.mentalfloss.com/article/90874/your-pac-man-game-learning-different-strategies-each-ghost

Commit message:

Add compilation instructions to README
Added compilation instructions for the game.

README.md, after:

[![Review Assignment Due Date](https://classroom.github.com/assets/deadline-readme-button-22041afd0340ce965d47ae6ef1cefeee28c7c493a6346c4f15d667ab976d596c.svg)](https://classroom.github.com/a/oKceQg_5)
# UPEcman - a UPE pacman
## This project was taught by Professor Dr. Ruben Carlo Benante. For more information, visit: https://hydra.beco.cc


Pacman with ncurses library

# Ghosts

## Blinky

* Name in English: Blinky
* English nickname: Shadow
* Name in Japanese: Oikake
* Japanese nickname: Akabei
* Superpower alter-ego name: Cruise Elroy
* Color: red
* Personality:
    - pursuer
    - chaser
    - aggressive
    - simple minded
    - determined
    - tenacious
    - cruiser
* Characteristics:
    - the first ghost to track Pacman down
    - very hard to shake off
    - it targets Pacman directly
    - when enhanced Cruise Elroy is summoned:
        * greater speed by 5%
        * scatter mode do not scatter anymore
* Ghost house: starts outside and if inside exits immediately
* Scatter mode target: upper-right corner (as Blinky), and Pacman (as Elroy)
* Portuguese:
    - Name in Portuguese: Oto or Barnabé
    - Superpower portuguese name: Elvis or Super-Oto
    - Portuguese nickname: Sombra

## Pinky

* Name in English: Pinky
* English nickname: Speedy
* Name in Japanese: Machibuse
* Japanese nickname: Pinky
* Color: pink
* Personality:
    - ambusher
    - lurker
    - ambuscader
* Characteristics:
    - it likes to cut Pacman off
    - work harmoniously with Blinky: it goes from the front while Blinky pursues from behind
    - it targets 4 tiles straight ahead of Pacman
    - the most intelligent of the group
* Ghost house: the first to get out (Blinky is already outside)
* Scatter mode target: upper-left corner
* Portuguese:
    - Name in Portuguese: Pascoal
    - Portuguese nickname: Traíra

## Inky

* Name in English: Inky
* English nickname: Bashful
* Name in Japanese: Kimagure
* Japanese nickname: Aosuke
* Color: cyan (light blue)
* Personality:
    - fickle
    - moody
    - uneven temper
    - unpredictable
    - whimsical
    - antisocial
* Characteristics:
    - changes from:
        * aggressive (like Blinky), if near Pacman
        * trickery (like Pinky), if in a medium distance of Pacman
        * distracted (like Clyde), if far away of Pacman
    - it can be the most hard ghost to avoid due to its triple personality
    - targets a tile in front of Pacman opposite to Blinky's position
* Ghost house: it is the second to exit, only after Pinky
* Scatter mode target: lower-right corner
* Portuguese:
    - Name in Portuguese: Igor
    - Portuguese nickname: Doido

## Clyde

* Name in English: Clyde
* English nickname: Pokey
* Name in Japanese: Otoboke
* Japanese nickname: Guzuta
* Color: orange
* Personality:
    - sluggish
    - stupid
    - dopey
    - feigning ignorance
    - short-sighted
* Characteristics:
    - it chases Pacman from distance
    - if it is near, it will change its target to its preferred corner
* Ghost house: the last to get out
* Scatter mode target: lower-left corner
* Portuguese:
    - Name in Portuguese: Clemente
    - Portuguese nickname: Pateta

## Scatter mode

The ghosts will chase Pacman for 20 seconds, then scatter for 7 seconds; and repeat the loop.

## Amazing Pacman

"Pac-Man is an amazing example of seemingly-complex behavior arising from only a few cleverly-designed rules, with the result being a deep and challenging game that players still strive to master, 30 years after its release." (by Chad Birch, 2010)

# code to compile the game
gcc upecman.c -o upecman.x -lncurses -DDEBUG=1

# References:

* https://www.google.com/doodles/30th-anniversary-of-pac-man
* http://www.garotasgeeks.com/5-coisas-que-voce-nao-sabia-sobre-o-pac-man/
* https://www.destructoid.com/blinky-inky-pinky-and-clyde-a-small-onomastic-study-108669.phtml
* http://olduse.net/blog/
* http://gameinternals.com/post/2072558330/understanding-pac-man-ghost-behavior
* http://www.gamasutra.com/view/feature/3938/the\_pacman\_dossier.php?print=1
* http://donhodges.com/pacman\_pinky\_explanation.htm
* http://www.todayifoundout.com/index.php/2015/10/ghosts-pac-man-work/
* https://www.mentalfloss.com/article/90874/your-pac-man-game-learning-different-strategies-each-ghost
